slides/ds101-worskhop.mdx, before:

import CDTheme from "@component-driven/mdx-deck-theme";

export const theme = { ...CDTheme };

<Primary>

# Design Systems 101

by Andrey Okonetchnikov & Varya Stepanova

</Primary>

---

# Schedule

- Ice breaker: baking a toast
- Introduction to the design systems
- Prepare! Naming exercise
- Start! UI inventory
- Execute! Parts of design system
- Maintain! Pattern Journey
- Recap

---

<Figure src="../assets/toast.jpg" alt="Yammy" caption="Making a Toast" />

<Notes>

### Why

We are doing this exercise as an ice-breaker. This helps our participants to get to know each other and us. During this exercise, we are also trying-out the collaborative tools which we are going to use further in the workshop.

### How

This describes how an exercise happens offline.

1. Each participant gets 5 postage notes.
1. The task is:<br/> Please draw the stages of making a toast in the morning. You can go wild, we had some people who started with buying a farm because they needed to produce bread. But finally you should have a nice crispy toast, and you have 5 post-its to illustrate the steps. It is nice to have drawings not words because it's just funny. But of course you can do what you want, including writing in any language. 3 minutes for this ex. Countdown starts now!
1. People are united in groups of 4 (semi-randomly)
1. The following task:<br/> Now you are a group. Review each other's steps and collect them all into a sequence. If it happens that two or three of you have exactly the same steps, you can merge them. If these steps are even slightly different, keep them separate and give them right order. Put your sequence onto a whiteboard.
1. Final task:<br/> Each group presents what they have.

### Conclusion

We had a lot of fun!

</Notes>

---

# Making a Toast 1/3

Individual task: 5 stages of making a toast in the morning.

- [Board 1](https://app.mural.co/t/ds101workshop3845/m/ds101workshop3845/1589366263872/5af7035ec7060adf49773ef75d586acdcb8c054e)
- [Board 2](https://app.mural.co/t/ds101workshop3845/m/ds101workshop3845/1589367556751/f57a3e7f623aa805bcf7346d91510397cd2f1113)
- [Board 3](https://app.mural.co/t/ds101workshop3845/m/ds101workshop3845/1589367608879/7f50a0e3c7fec8781985eeea84a9f17240ab763b)

<Notes>

Please draw the stages of making a toast in the morning. You can go wild, we had some people who started with buying a farm because they needed to produce bread. But finally you should have a nice crispy toast, and you have 5 postages to illustrate the steps.

</Notes>

---

# Making a Toast 2/3

Group task: merge the toast making stages.

<Notes>

Now you are a group. Review each other's steps and collect them all into a sequence. If it happens that two or three of you have exactly the same steps, you can merge them. If these steps are even slightly different, keep them separate and give them right order. Put your sequence onto a whiteboard.

</Notes>

---

# Making a Toast 3/3

## Present!

---

<Primary>

# Naming things

</Primary>

---

> There are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things.
>
> Phil Karlton

---

# 👩‍💻👨‍💻 Naming things

<Notes>

### Why

We are doing this exercise to demonstrate that working in isolation people may name the same things differently, as a result, this makes future communication more complex, decreases maintainability and increases production costs.

### How

There are mockups of small pieces of some interface. Each piece has two copies. In the following exercise, we distribute the mockups to the two copies of the same mockup get to a designer and a developer. For easier matching, the mockups are color-coded.

Participants are divided into two groups: designers and developers. Designers and developers go to two different rooms where they get their tasks. Each participant gets a mockup of some interface. Mockups do not have any additional information, just a sketch of some UI. Participants get the following 5-minute tasks:

Mockups:

- [1](/assets/Naming-UI-1.png)

**For designers**

You are getting mocks with some interface. Please write instructions for a designer who creates a visual design. Describe what exactly a designer has to draw. You should somehow name the patterns or components they are going to design, and use these names in your description. Maybe you will also need to name some subparts of the interface. Write in English or any other language. 3-4 sentences if enough.

**For developers**

You are getting mocks with some interface. Please write instructions for a developer who is going to code this into a component. Describe what functionality this component has and how a user interacts with it. You should somehow name the pieces of the interface and use these names in your description. Maybe you also need to name some subparts of the components. Write in English or any other language. 3-4 sentences if enough.

In 5 minutes, all are getting back to the common room. We match copies of the same mockup so that we a description for a designer and a developer. We make a "presentation" of every joined description so that it gets clear how the same things can get different names when people are working in isolation.

### Conclusion

Shared vocabulary is very important, it results in more productive cooperative work.

</Notes>

---

# Parts of design system

<Notes>

## Why

We are doing this exercise to demonstrate several meanings:

1. A design system cannot contain everything
1. Design system should be focused on the things relevant to specific project/organization
1. Defining parts of design system requires separate workshop/meeting/etc

## How

We are doing Nathan Curtis' exercise for the teams who are starting a design system https://medium.com/eightshapes-llc/picking-parts-products-people-a06721e81742

Our exercise is in a digital format. Participants get a link to Google Sheet with the
exercise. They have "view" rights for this sheet. Everyone can copy the sheet to their
own Google Drive. This way, everyone gets their editable copy.

The exercise is done in three steps.

First, participants cross out 5 the most irrelevant categories (boxes).
Seconds, out of the left categories, participants select 5 the most relevant categories (boxes).
Third, inside the selected categories, participants tick 25 items using the checkboxes.

Once done, all the participants present their choices and explain them.

Link to the workshop sheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WO92vycLlDkDXr9rb1sztzXmlcUn1qeUTEkfvpOOuWk/edit?usp=sharing

## Conslusion

The design systems are very different and it usually does not make much sense just to copy
someone else's. The content of your design system should respond to the needs of your organization
or project. Deciding what should be in your design system is a separate kind of activity.
It is worth to run a little in-house workshop similar to this exercise which would help
to find out the relevant parts of your design system.

</Notes>

---

# Review

[Mockups. The full version](https://www.figma.com/file/CCIfruTLVYWanYldiUvvYv/Naming-Ex?node-id=1%3A2)

---

<Primary>

# Primary slide

</Primary>

---

<Secondary>

# Secondary slide

</Secondary>

<Notes>Secondary slide</Notes>

---

> Takeaway slide

<Notes>Takeaway slide</Notes>

---

# H1

## H2

### H3

This is paragraph with `inline` code

---

<SplitTitle>

# Ordered List

1. List
1. List
1. List
1. List

</SplitTitle>

---

<Image src="../assets/colorsnapper.png" size="contain" />

---

<SplitTitle>

# Code Sample

```jsx
function Code({ children, language, inline = false }) {
  if (typeof children !== "string") {
    return (
      <pre style={{ color: "firebrick" }}>
        Code: `children` must be a string
      </pre>
    );
  }
  return (
    <Prism {...codeTheme} useInlineStyles language={language}>
      {children.replace(/\t/, "  ")}
    </Prism>
  );
}
```

</SplitTitle>
<ThatGuy />

---

<SplitTitle>

# List with steps

<Steps>

- One
- Two
- Three
- Four

</Steps>
</SplitTitle>

---

<Figure
  src="../assets/component-driven.svg"
  alt="Component-driven Logo"
  caption={
    <a href="https://component-driven.io">https://component-driven.io</a>
  }
/>

Commit message:

Naming Ex: Build pages based on images imported from Figma

slides/ds101-worskhop.mdx, after:

import CDTheme from "@component-driven/mdx-deck-theme";

export const theme = { ...CDTheme };

<Primary>

# Design Systems 101

by Andrey Okonetchnikov & Varya Stepanova

</Primary>

---

# Schedule

- Ice breaker: baking a toast
- Introduction to the design systems
- Prepare! Naming exercise
- Start! UI inventory
- Execute! Parts of design system
- Maintain! Pattern Journey
- Recap

---

<Figure src="../assets/toast.jpg" alt="Yammy" caption="Making a Toast" />

<Notes>

### Why

We are doing this exercise as an ice-breaker. This helps our participants to get to know each other and us. During this exercise, we are also trying-out the collaborative tools which we are going to use further in the workshop.

### How

This describes how an exercise happens offline.

1. Each participant gets 5 postage notes.
1. The task is:<br/> Please draw the stages of making a toast in the morning. You can go wild, we had some people who started with buying a farm because they needed to produce bread. But finally you should have a nice crispy toast, and you have 5 post-its to illustrate the steps. It is nice to have drawings not words because it's just funny. But of course you can do what you want, including writing in any language. 3 minutes for this ex. Countdown starts now!
1. People are united in groups of 4 (semi-randomly)
1. The following task:<br/> Now you are a group. Review each other's steps and collect them all into a sequence. If it happens that two or three of you have exactly the same steps, you can merge them. If these steps are even slightly different, keep them separate and give them right order. Put your sequence onto a whiteboard.
1. Final task:<br/> Each group presents what they have.

### Conclusion

We had a lot of fun!

</Notes>

---

# Making a Toast 1/3

Individual task: 5 stages of making a toast in the morning.

- [Board 1](https://app.mural.co/t/ds101workshop3845/m/ds101workshop3845/1589366263872/5af7035ec7060adf49773ef75d586acdcb8c054e)
- [Board 2](https://app.mural.co/t/ds101workshop3845/m/ds101workshop3845/1589367556751/f57a3e7f623aa805bcf7346d91510397cd2f1113)
- [Board 3](https://app.mural.co/t/ds101workshop3845/m/ds101workshop3845/1589367608879/7f50a0e3c7fec8781985eeea84a9f17240ab763b)

<Notes>

Please draw the stages of making a toast in the morning. You can go wild, we had some people who started with buying a farm because they needed to produce bread. But finally you should have a nice crispy toast, and you have 5 postages to illustrate the steps.

</Notes>

---

# Making a Toast 2/3

Group task: merge the toast making stages.

<Notes>

Now you are a group. Review each other's steps and collect them all into a sequence. If it happens that two or three of you have exactly the same steps, you can merge them. If these steps are even slightly different, keep them separate and give them right order. Put your sequence onto a whiteboard.

</Notes>

---

# Making a Toast 3/3

## Present!

---

<Primary>

# Naming things

</Primary>

---

> There are only two hard things in Computer Science: cache invalidation and naming things.
>
> Phil Karlton

---

# 👩‍💻👨‍💻 Naming things

<Notes>

### Why

We are doing this exercise to demonstrate that working in isolation people may name the same things differently, as a result, this makes future communication more complex, decreases maintainability and increases production costs.

### How

There are mockups of small pieces of some interface. Each piece has two copies. In the following exercise, we distribute the mockups to the two copies of the same mockup get to a designer and a developer. For easier matching, the mockups are color-coded.

Participants are divided into two groups: designers and developers. Designers and developers go to two different rooms where they get their tasks. Each participant gets a mockup of some interface. Mockups do not have any additional information, just a sketch of some UI. Participants get the following 5-minute tasks:

Mockups:

- [1](/assets/Naming-UI-1.png)

**For designers**

You are getting mocks with some interface. Please write instructions for a designer who creates a visual design. Describe what exactly a designer has to draw. You should somehow name the patterns or components they are going to design, and use these names in your description. Maybe you will also need to name some subparts of the interface. Write in English or any other language. 3-4 sentences if enough.

**For developers**

You are getting mocks with some interface. Please write instructions for a developer who is going to code this into a component. Describe what functionality this component has and how a user interacts with it. You should somehow name the pieces of the interface and use these names in your description. Maybe you also need to name some subparts of the components. Write in English or any other language. 3-4 sentences if enough.

In 5 minutes, all are getting back to the common room. We match copies of the same mockup so that we a description for a designer and a developer. We make a "presentation" of every joined description so that it gets clear how the same things can get different names when people are working in isolation.

### Conclusion

Shared vocabulary is very important, it results in more productive cooperative work.

</Notes>

Take your piece and describe it as a designer or developer.

- [Piece 1](/naming/1/)
- [Piece 2](/naming/2/)
- [Piece 3](/naming/3/)
- [Piece 4](/naming/4/)
- [Piece 5](/naming/5/)
- [Piece 6](/naming/6/)
- [Piece 7](/naming/7/)
- [Piece 8](/naming/8/)

---

# Naming things. Review

- [All together](/naming/all/)

---

# Parts of design system

<Notes>

## Why

We are doing this exercise to demonstrate several meanings:

1. A design system cannot contain everything
1. Design system should be focused on the things relevant to specific project/organization
1. Defining parts of design system requires separate workshop/meeting/etc

## How

We are doing Nathan Curtis' exercise for the teams who are starting a design system https://medium.com/eightshapes-llc/picking-parts-products-people-a06721e81742

Our exercise is in a digital format. Participants get a link to Google Sheet with the
exercise. They have "view" rights for this sheet. Everyone can copy the sheet to their
own Google Drive. This way, everyone gets their editable copy.

The exercise is done in three steps.

First, participants cross out 5 the most irrelevant categories (boxes).
Seconds, out of the left categories, participants select 5 the most relevant categories (boxes).
Third, inside the selected categories, participants tick 25 items using the checkboxes.

Once done, all the participants present their choices and explain them.

Link to the workshop sheet: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1WO92vycLlDkDXr9rb1sztzXmlcUn1qeUTEkfvpOOuWk/edit?usp=sharing

## Conslusion

The design systems are very different and it usually does not make much sense just to copy
someone else's. The content of your design system should respond to the needs of your organization
or project. Deciding what should be in your design system is a separate kind of activity.
It is worth to run a little in-house workshop similar to this exercise which would help
to find out the relevant parts of your design system.

</Notes>

---

# Review

[Mockups. The full version](https://www.figma.com/file/CCIfruTLVYWanYldiUvvYv/Naming-Ex?node-id=1%3A2)

---

<Primary>

# Primary slide

</Primary>

---

<Secondary>

# Secondary slide

</Secondary>

<Notes>Secondary slide</Notes>

---

> Takeaway slide

<Notes>Takeaway slide</Notes>

---

# H1

## H2

### H3

This is paragraph with `inline` code

---

<SplitTitle>

# Ordered List

1. List
1. List
1. List
1. List

</SplitTitle>

---

<Image src="../assets/colorsnapper.png" size="contain" />

---

<SplitTitle>

# Code Sample

```jsx
function Code({ children, language, inline = false }) {
  if (typeof children !== "string") {
    return (
      <pre style={{ color: "firebrick" }}>
        Code: `children` must be a string
      </pre>
    );
  }
  return (
    <Prism {...codeTheme} useInlineStyles language={language}>
      {children.replace(/\t/, "  ")}
    </Prism>
  );
}
```

</SplitTitle>
<ThatGuy />

---

<SplitTitle>

# List with steps

<Steps>

- One
- Two
- Three
- Four

</Steps>
</SplitTitle>

---

<Figure
  src="../assets/component-driven.svg"
  alt="Component-driven Logo"
  caption={
    <a href="https://component-driven.io">https://component-driven.io</a>
  }
/>
